Okay.
You were saying about, I asked you about the people that, you know, the genuine article.
I've known about 30 of the old gunfighters and outlaws.
Known who have talked to them, seen them shoot.
In many cases, sat for hours with some of them.
Any famous ones?
Well, Bill Tillman taught me how to use a gun.
He was one of the famous frontier marshals.
He was marshal of Dodge City at one time.
And Chris Madsen and Heck Thomas wiped out the Doolin-Dallin Gang.
You went in search of these fellows?
No, he was a friend of my brother's, and we were having dinner together one time, and my brother and I were both interested, so he took us down the North Canadian River Bottoms and showed us how it was done.
Then I worked Bailey Hay one summer with Tom Pickett, who used to ride with Billy the Kid.
and he'd been arrested with Billy, he'd been shot, wounded in gunfights that Billy was also in.
He also was in the Town of Basin War.
The expression was never used in those days, but he was what the movies call a hired gun.
That's a recent expression.
But he was hired as what they called a warrior in those days, a fighting man.
Do these real-life people work their way as characters into your books?
not they themselves, but they contributed to a number of characters.
Okay, now they're probably being published in cloth now as well as back then.
Is that something that pleases you or does this open up another market or?
Oh yes, it opens up another market and it does please me because the books are in more lasting form.
But it's the story is the main thing.
How about who do you like to read?
Do you have time to read other authors?
Only research material.
You don't read other authors?
Once in a while.
Once in a while I do, and I'm on a trip like this.
I'm reading a detective story now.
How about, you had some comments about the novelists of today in general, but I gather you don't think very highly of them.
I don't.
A lot of them, I think, have lost the fact that they're storytellers.
Part of that, I think, is an outgrowth of what happened in the 1930s.
There was a period then when everybody had to be selling a bill of goods.
If you can't write about something to advance the cause of the working man, you're nobody.
You're wasting your time.
And so everybody got the idea that he was writing a cause.
You were selling a bill of goods.
You were convincing somebody of something.
You had to be writing about something.
This is a lot of crap.
A good writer writes a good story.
Shakespeare just wrote a good play.
So he wasn't trying to convince anybody about anything.
He didn't even try to publish his own play.
That's right.
No, he didn't.
See, I think I've asked you everything I want, and I'll give you a little time to rest his room.
The Shadow Riders, which is Louie's next novel, will be two things that happen.
One, it's going to be published by Van
So it's been a good ride for you then, huh?
Yeah.
Enjoyed it.
I mean, is there anything you'd change?
If you had to do it again, do it the same way?
Oh, there always is.
There always is.
But you have to stop something or anything.
Keep changing.
You said when you were 15 you were hungry.
Are you still hungry at all?
You're only for more books, more time.
Time is the thing I need now.
Time is the one thing that's most essential and is the hardest to come by.
It's one thing nobody can give you.
It's quite a shelf.
Quite a shelf of books you've got.
Yeah.
But I've still got a lot of books I want to write.
I haven't even begun to scratch the surface to tell you the truth.
And I've...
At this particular moment, I have 34 books in some stage of writing.
Jeez.
If I get one line on paper, I've got it.
And some of these are half-written, some are two-third-written, some are only three paragraphs.
I have some book board in my study and a whole bunch of books.
You've got an 8,000-volume library, mainly a research library?
Yes, it runs a little better than that.
That's a hell of a big library.
Yes, it is.
I thought mine was big at 2,000 times.
Well, these are carefully selected books, too.
Books I refer to again and again.
I'm doing different parts of the country.
They're basic stuff from Tennessee and Kentucky and Virginia and Maine and whatnot.
I added at least 100 books on this trip.
Wow.
Probably up in Canada and probably down here.
One last question.
Do you identify with these characters?
Do you feel like you're one of them?
Oh, yeah.
Remember Kissinger said that he felt like the gunfighter riding into town.
That was the power of that.
Do you feel like the gunfighter riding into town?
No, I don't feel like that, although I have to get inside of it to tell your story properly.
Some of my best stories are told in first person.
You have to know how somebody reacts or feels.
Of course, I've done some shooting, and I've done a lot of fighting, so I know pretty much what they feel like.
Well, I'm going to wrap it at that, and thank you.